Plot ideas – Little Go Nowhere
Anything in brackets () = points to think about and discuss

Starting point

You find yourself on the outskirts of a big, dark forest. The sky above is grey, everything around you is mechanized, now visibly broken down. The forest is empty and abandoned. 
You are alone apart from your trusty super computer. He will help you navigate this harsh environment by decoding messages, providing information and assisting with other program-related issues. In this cyber based world, there will be many such instances. (Note: the computer is a combination of a sort of inventory and a secondary character).

A little background about your world

You arrived at the forest after receiving an encrypted (encrypted? Not sure this is necessary?... might add some events through the need to "decode" the message? Or too much?) message from a mysterious figure. He is the inventor and creator of the cyber city, known simply as Maverick (The Czech word 'samorost' means maverick, by the way :) ). An enigmatic character, he was presumed dead for years after vanishing from the public eye.
Maverick was once the CEO and head developer of the worldwide software company that got commissioned to create the world's first fully cyber operated state, where computers and robots control all aspects of life autonomously. This state is complete with metropolitans, forests, fields, industrial areas. However, the project fell due to internal conflicts in the firm and was shut down. Now, the cyber state stands derelict and unused, it has been that way for almost 20 years. After the collapse of the cyber state project, Maverick went into hiding and was never seen in person since.
(Note: There is also another possible plotline of a sort of cyber apocalypse, that can explain the empty city and the unused technology. But I personally dislike this line. There are a little too many "apocalyptic games" out there.)

Missions in the game

You must first decode the message from Maverick in order to know where you are heading. The first part of the message, which you have already figured out, explains that Maverick is in hiding somewhere in the depths of the forest. You will have to gradually decode the rest of the message to find his specific whereabouts (what kind of clues in the game might help us understand the code?)

Until you get to your destination, you will also need to survive alone in the wild. You will need to complete several tasks:

You will need to find food to eat. Since the forest is completely computer-dependent, you will need to code the cyber trees to get them to grow you some food (sandwiches, anyone?)
You will need to keep warm in the cold nights. Using an infra red heat sensors (that can be found in your computer) you will need to find spots where the machines still emit heat to build your sanctuary. (Not sure if this is necessary at all?)
What other things are necessary for survival? Find at least 3 more

During the game, you will also need to pass the many security barriers that are active in the forest. It may seem abandoned, but it is highly protected. These security devices were planted by Maverick to prevent unwanted intruders.

As the game progresses, you discover (How?) that Maverick has contacted others too and asked them to go and find him – but so far none have made it. (Perhaps: you will meet one of them?)

Towards the end of the game – 
You will learn that Maverick no longer exists as human. He has uploaded his self completed with memory, personality and genetic traits, into the system of the state that he himself created. He is now a software based entity (Check out Whole brain emulation (WBE), or "mind upload" theory to get a better sense of what I had in mind). In order to contact him, you will need to fully immerse yourself in the state's network and give up your tangible\physical existence – whivh poses the choice – 
Will you agree to do this or refuse?
(This can open a rather surreal phase of the game, don't you think?)

If you choose to agree with Maverick's condition, you will find out that he hasn't made things easy for you. You will still need to pass several 'tests' to prove yourself worthy.
We still need to consider – what does he actually want to contact the character for? Is he trying to pass on a secret? Create a new kind of society? Something else?


We need to decide:
Is the game – point and click or text based?
Point of view or out of character perspective?
More - - - 
